Add ts CLI ad-template config diagnostics and browser audit (#823)
IABTechLab/trusted-server: docs/guide/cli.md

survives alongside the homepage's.

### When it keeps literal paths, and when it refuses

A wrong ad-unit template makes the publisher bid against inventory that does not
exist, so the command prefers a narrow literal path over a plausible guess.

| Situation                                                                               | Result                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Only one page was crawled                                                               | Literal path. One observation cannot distinguish a literal from a template.                                                             |
| The ad unit never varied by section                                                     | Literal path.                                                                                                                           |

> | A section's slug is not derivable from its URL (`/site-news` requesting `.../sitenews`) | Literal path; the round-trip check catches it.                                                                                          |

Reviewer: 🔧 **wrench** — The refusal table still contradicts the code (carry-over; the resolution design said docs and tests would "consistently describe these cases as refusal"). This row and the next ("No root page was seen → Literal path rather than a guessed fallback") both describe outcomes that `literal_decision` refuses whenever the slot observed more than one unit path — which both situations guarantee — and refusal now omits the slot entirely. The tests still assert `Refuse` under "literal" names (`a_slug_the_path_cannot_reproduce_stays_literal`, `an_unwitnessed_root_does_not_template`), the test comment still credits round-trip verification for a rejection `analyse_slot` makes first, and the operator-facing diagnostics at `unit_template.rs:149,160,190` say "keeping the literal path" in exactly the cases that omit the slot.

**Fix**: correct both table rows to "slot omitted, with the reason reported", rename the two tests, and reword the diagnostics to match what is written to the file.

| A section's slug is not derivable from its URL (`/site-news` requesting `.../sitenews`) | The slot is omitted and the reason is reported.                                                                                         |
| No root page was seen, so `section_root` is unknown                                     | The slot is omitted rather than writing a guessed fallback.                                                                             |
| Two path segments could both be the section                                             | No template; the ambiguity is reported.                                                                                                 |
| The ad unit varies by device, geo, or anything the URL cannot supply                    | The refused slot is omitted and the reason is written as a note.                                                                        |
| Crawled pages report different GAM network ids                                          | The run fails; the pages are not one property.                                                                                          |

> | More than a quarter of crawled pages return no slots                                    | The run fails. That is the signature of bot protection serving challenge pages, and writing from it would silently narrow the slot set. |

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — The refusal table is the operator's reference for why a slot vanished, and both new refusal classes are missing from it: a same-page normalized div-id collision group (`skipped ambiguous div-id prefix …`) and the known per-render family (`skipped known per-render div-id family …`). Both reach the operator through the same notes channel as the documented rows.

```suggestion
| More than a quarter of crawled pages return no slots                                    | The run fails. That is the signature of bot protection serving challenge pages, and writing from it would silently narrow the slot set. |
| Several live elements normalize to one div-id prefix                                   | The whole group is omitted. A prefix resolves at most one element and the exact ids change per render; the prefix is named in a note.  |
| A div id belongs to a known per-render family                                          | The slot is omitted and the family is named in a note, even from a single observation.                                                 |
```

Author: Applied in `b836fad6`, with the wording matched to what shipped: the collision row states the group is omitted on every page of the crawl (the verdict is site-wide now), and the second row describes the per-render token shape rather than a known family, since the recognizer is no longer vendor-specific.

Every run checks that the config it produced still loads before replacing the
file, and `--dry-run` runs the same check — a clean preview is evidence the
config loads, not just that it parses. Dry-run stdout is a zero-context unified
diff containing only the managed creative-opportunity fields; notes and refusal

> reasons go to stderr, so unrelated config and secrets are not printed.

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — The always-on stderr progress output added this round (`Auditing desktop [2/17]: /news`, phase lines, no opt-out flag) is undocumented; this paragraph is the only statement about the command's stderr contract.

```suggestion
diff containing only the managed creative-opportunity fields; notes and refusal
reasons go to stderr, so unrelated config and secrets are not printed. Crawl
progress also goes to stderr, one line per phase and page — for example
`Auditing desktop [2/17]: /news`. Progress renders the path only, never the
origin, userinfo, query, or fragment, and there is no flag to suppress it.
```

Author: Applied in `b836fad6`, plus a sentence for the `--dry-run` no-change line, which moved to stderr in the same commit.

because `--cookie` sends a real session to the origin and the page's own
response becomes the audit's evidence, so a certificate-invalid host could both
harvest the session and fabricate what the audit reports. Override only for a
host you control with a known self-signed certificate:

```bash
ts audit page https://staging.publisher.example --danger-accept-invalid-certs
```

`ts audit ad-templates verify` matches configured slots against the
**post-redirect** path, so it refuses a redirect that leaves the requested
origin rather than accepting another site's evidence as verification. Allow it
for a known redirect between your own properties (for example apex to `www`):

```bash
ts audit ad-templates verify https://publisher.example/ --allow-cross-origin-redirect
```

Verification accepts multiple URLs and reuses one browser/profile. Add
`--strict` to return exit 1 when a confirmable slot is missing or partially
confirmed, and `--json` for the stable machine-readable report. Video, native,
and out-of-page slots are reported as `unconfirmable`; that records a checker
limitation and does not fail strict mode. `--scroll` enables the optional second

> evidence phase and labels evidence first seen after the deterministic scroll.

Reviewer: 🔧 **wrench** — This contradicts both the code and the spec section updated in this same round: a live out-of-page (sizeless) GPT slot matched against banner-configured formats is `partial` and **does** fail `--strict` (`compare.rs:299-311`, test `sizeless_live_slot_is_partial_when_config_declares_banner_sizes` asserts `strict_failed()`). Only video/native-only configs yield `unconfirmable`. An operator following this paragraph will be surprised by an exit-1 they were told could not happen. The same stale claim also lives in `docs/superpowers/specs/2026-08-18-pr-823-review-resolution-design.md:135-138` and `docs/superpowers/plans/2026-06-26-server-side-ad-template-cli.md:1069, 1264` — please fix those in the same commit.

```suggestion
confirmed, and `--json` for the stable machine-readable report. Video- and
native-only slots are reported as `unconfirmable`; that records a checker
limitation and does not fail strict mode. A live out-of-page slot with no sizes
against banner-configured formats is reported `partial` and does fail strict
mode. `--scroll` enables the optional second evidence phase and labels evidence
first seen after the deterministic scroll.
```

Author: Applied in `b836fad6`. The same stale claim is fixed in the three other places you named: `docs/superpowers/specs/2026-08-18-pr-823-review-resolution-design.md`, `docs/superpowers/plans/2026-08-18-pr-823-review-resolution.md`, and `docs/superpowers/plans/2026-06-26-server-side-ad-template-cli.md` — the §5.4 sample there now asserts `SlotStatus::Partial` rather than merely "not `Confirmed`", and the `out_of_page_slot` warning entry says it fails `--strict`.

`--dry-run` that changes nothing says so on stderr too, leaving stdout an empty
diff.

### Bounding and steering the crawl

```bash
# Cover more of a large site.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-sections 20 --max-pages 41

# Audit exactly one page, as earlier releases did.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-pages 1

# Set the patterns yourself; this disables pattern inference entirely.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ \
  --page-pattern '/' --page-pattern '/news' --page-pattern '/news/*'

# Preview without writing.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --dry-run
```

Re-running merges into the existing slots: a slot seen again keeps its
hand-tuned fields and gains this run's patterns and newly observed formats, and a hand-written
`gam_unit_path` template is preserved. `--replace` discards existing slots
instead, which also discards any template you wrote by hand.

A merge refuses to change the section policy that preserved `{section}` slots
were written against: if the config already sets `section_root` (or

> `section_segment`) and this run infers different values, the run fails and asks

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — `validate_merge_policy` gates solely on a **non-empty `section_root`**; `section_segment` only participates in the comparison after that gate. A config with `section_segment` and no `section_root` takes the adopt-the-inferred-policy path the next sentence describes, so the parenthetical is misleading.

```suggestion
were written against: if the config already sets a non-empty `section_root` and
this run infers a different root or segment, the run fails and asks
```

Author: Fixed in e17ddc11, with the merge behavior also tightened in 75afcedf. The guide now documents refusal for either an explicitly mismatched section_segment or a non-empty mismatched section_root.

Every run checks that the config it produced still loads before replacing the
file, and `--dry-run` runs the same check — a clean preview is evidence the
config loads, not just that it parses. Dry-run stdout is a zero-context unified
diff containing only the managed creative-opportunity fields; notes and refusal
reasons go to stderr, so unrelated config and secrets are not printed. Crawl
progress also goes to stderr, one line per phase and page — for example
`Auditing desktop [2/17]: /news`. Progress renders the path only, never the
origin, userinfo, query, or fragment, and there is no flag to suppress it. A
`--dry-run` that changes nothing says so on stderr too, leaving stdout an empty
diff.

### Bounding and steering the crawl

```bash
# Cover more of a large site.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-sections 20 --max-pages 41

# Audit exactly one page, as earlier releases did.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-pages 1

> # Set the patterns yourself; this disables pattern inference entirely unless a
> # slot's template had to borrow section_root from another slot.

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — "unless a slot's template had to borrow section_root" reads as though inference is retained in that case; the implemented behavior is that the run fails and writes nothing. The corrected paragraph below says so — this in-example comment is the part an operator skims.

```suggestion
# Set the patterns yourself; this disables pattern inference entirely, and the
# run fails outright if any slot's template had to borrow section_root.
```

| Crawled pages report different GAM network ids                                          | The run fails; the pages are not one property.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| More than a quarter of crawled pages return no slots                                    | The run fails. That is the signature of bot protection serving challenge pages, and writing from it would silently narrow the slot set.                                                                                       |
| Several live elements normalize onto one div-id prefix                                  | The whole group is omitted, on every page of the crawl. A prefix resolves to at most one element and the exact ids change per render; the prefix is named in a note.                                                          |

> | A per-render token sits before the placement part of a div id                           | The slot is omitted from a single observation and the family prefix is named in a note; no stable prefix identifies one element.                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — The round-6 generate-side origin boundary (`2f5cae6da`) is a new operator-visible skip with no override flag on generation, and it silently reduces the coverage counted toward the zero-coverage refusal — but this table, the documented catalogue of skips and refusals, has no row for it (the only cross-origin text in the file is scoped to `verify`).

```suggestion
| A per-render token sits before the placement part of a div id                           | The slot is omitted from a single observation and the family prefix is named in a note; no stable prefix identifies one element.                                                                                              |
| A crawled page redirects off the audited origin                                        | The page is skipped on that profile, its path is named in a note, and it stops counting toward profile coverage. There is no override for generation; another site's evidence is never folded into the config.               |
```

Author: Fixed in `fccfcd48`. The CLI reference now documents cross-origin iframe behavior, including recursive accessible-frame collection and the limitation for inaccessible cross-origin frames.

origin, userinfo, query, or fragment, and there is no flag to suppress it. A
`--dry-run` that changes nothing says so on stderr too, leaving stdout an empty
diff.

### Bounding and steering the crawl

```bash
# Cover more of a large site.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-sections 20 --max-pages 41

# Audit exactly one page, as earlier releases did.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-pages 1

# Trigger lazy-loaded inventory on every crawled page.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --scroll

# Set the patterns yourself; this disables pattern inference entirely, and the
# run fails outright if any slot's template had to borrow section_root.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ \
  --page-pattern '/' --page-pattern '/news' --page-pattern '/news/*'

# Preview without writing.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --dry-run
```

Re-running merges into the existing slots: a slot seen again keeps its
hand-tuned fields and gains this run's patterns and newly observed formats, and a hand-written
`gam_unit_path` template is preserved. `--replace` discards existing slots

> instead, which also discards any template you wrote by hand.

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — This paragraph still describes pre-round-6 merging. `f8193599d`/`69e749ce9`/`2f5cae6da` changed the identity rules: a configured `div_id` is a prefix matcher only when it was never itself observed as a literal element, siblings are appended as their own slots, and appended slots match by exact identity only. An operator whose config gained slots after upgrading currently has nothing to read. (Also normalizes line 278, which is over the file's 80-column wrap.)

```suggestion
Re-running merges into the existing slots: a slot seen again keeps its
hand-tuned fields and gains this run's patterns and newly observed formats, and
a hand-written `gam_unit_path` template is preserved. A configured `div_id` is
matched exactly when the crawl observed that exact id; it is treated as a
runtime prefix only when it was never observed as a literal element, so a
configured `ad-sidebar-1` no longer absorbs a discovered `ad-sidebar-10` — the
sibling is appended as its own slot. A prefix that does claim several
discovered divs is named in a stderr note, because the runtime resolves a
prefix to at most one element. `--replace` discards existing slots instead,
which also discards any template you wrote by hand.
```

Author: Fixed in `fccfcd48`. The merge documentation now states the exact literal, prefix, sibling, and multi-match observation semantics, including that one observed div can preserve multiple compatible configured opportunities.

Note that a local Trusted Server injects its own configured slots into the page,
so a run through the proxy can rediscover config it already has. Slot ids that
are absent from the current config are the publisher's own.

### Slots that change div id on every render

Some ad stacks build div ids from a per-render token, so one placement arrives
under a new id on every page. Those ids match nothing at runtime, so the run
declines to write them and reports the group instead:

```text
note: skipped 3 slot(s) that look like one placement under a per-render div id
      on `/123456789/publisher/overlay` (ex_slot_a1_overlay_1, …);
      they share the prefix `ex_slot`. Add it once by hand with a div_id prefix
      that is stable across renders
```

The detection is by evidence, not by recognising token shapes: candidates share
an ad-unit path and formats, and what separates a fragmented placement from two
legitimate siblings on one unit is co-occurrence — real siblings appear together
on a page, fragments never do. The suggested prefix is a starting point only, not
written as a `div_id`, because it reaches only as far as the observed tokens

> happen to agree.

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — "not by recognising token shapes" is now contradicted by the widened shape recognizer: `f0d96bf84` refuses the 8-digit + 8-char case from a single observation with no co-occurrence evidence — the mechanism this sentence denies. The table row above documents it correctly; this prose is the only contradiction.

```suggestion
This particular group is detected by evidence, not by recognising token shapes:
candidates share an ad-unit path and formats, and what separates a fragmented
placement from two legitimate siblings on one unit is co-occurrence — real
siblings appear together on a page, fragments never do. (A single id whose
per-render token sits *before* the placement part is refused on shape alone,
from one observation, as the table above notes.) The suggested prefix is a
starting point only, not written as a `div_id`, because it reaches only as far
as the observed tokens happen to agree.
```

Author: Fixed in `fccfcd48`. The prose now separates evidence grouping from shape-based refusal, so it no longer implies that every grouped identifier necessarily becomes a generated opportunity.

```

Verification accepts multiple URLs and reuses one browser/profile. Add
`--strict` to return exit 1 when a confirmable slot is missing or partially
confirmed, and `--json` for the stable machine-readable report. Video- and
native-only slots are reported as `unconfirmable`; that records a checker
limitation and does not fail strict mode. A live out-of-page slot with no sizes
against banner-configured formats is reported `partial` and does fail strict
mode. `--scroll` enables the optional second evidence phase and labels evidence
first seen after the deterministic scroll.

Browser-backed ad-template generation and verification share `--chrome`,
`--headful`, `--browser-proxy`, `--no-assume-consent`,
`--settle-quiet-ms`, `--settle-max-ms`, and
`--danger-accept-invalid-certs`. Verification also accepts
`--browser-profile desktop|mobile`; generation uses
`--profiles desktop,mobile` to compare both profiles. `--cookie NAME=VALUE` is
repeatable and creates host-only, root-path cookies; HTTPS targets also mark
them Secure. Verification refuses cookies when URLs span multiple origins. The quiet settle window

> must not exceed the maximum.

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — The shared-flag list omits `--scroll`, which is now on generation, verification, and `ts audit page`, all driving the same `browser_scroll::scroll_page`; line 462 is also 98 chars against the file's 80-column wrap.

```suggestion
Browser-backed ad-template generation and verification share `--chrome`,
`--headful`, `--browser-proxy`, `--no-assume-consent`, `--scroll`,
`--settle-quiet-ms`, `--settle-max-ms`, and `--danger-accept-invalid-certs`;
`--scroll` runs the same deterministic scroll pass in both, and in verification
it additionally labels the second evidence phase. Verification also accepts
`--browser-profile desktop|mobile`; generation uses `--profiles desktop,mobile`
to compare both profiles. `--cookie NAME=VALUE` is repeatable and creates
host-only, root-path cookies; HTTPS targets also mark them Secure. Verification
refuses cookies when URLs span multiple origins. The quiet settle window must
not exceed the maximum.
```

Author: Fixed in `fccfcd48`. `--scroll` is documented in the shared generate flag reference and its execution phase is described explicitly.

ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-sections 20 --max-pages 41

# Audit exactly one page, as earlier releases did.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --max-pages 1

# Trigger lazy-loaded inventory on every crawled page.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --scroll

# Set the patterns yourself; this disables pattern inference entirely, and the
# run fails outright if any slot's template had to borrow section_root.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ \
  --page-pattern '/' --page-pattern '/news' --page-pattern '/news/*'

# Preview without writing.
ts audit ad-templates generate https://publisher.example/ --dry-run
```

Re-running merges into the existing slots: a slot seen again keeps its
hand-tuned fields and gains this run's patterns and newly observed formats, and
a hand-written `gam_unit_path` template is preserved. A configured `div_id` is
matched exactly when the crawl observed that exact id; it is treated as a
runtime prefix only when it was never observed as a literal element, so a
configured `ad-sidebar-1` no longer absorbs a discovered `ad-sidebar-10` — the

> sibling is appended as its own slot. A prefix that does claim several

Reviewer: ⛏ **nitpick** — The paragraph documents the split and the prefix-claim note, but not the new tuned-field split warning this commit added — the one message telling an operator their floor price, targeting, or provider settings did not follow the sibling.

```suggestion
a hand-written `gam_unit_path` template is preserved. A configured `div_id` is
matched exactly when the crawl observed that exact id; it is treated as a
runtime prefix only when it was never observed as a literal element, so a
configured `ad-sidebar-1` no longer absorbs a discovered `ad-sidebar-10` — the
sibling is appended as its own slot, and when the parent carried a floor price,
targeting, or provider settings, a stderr note names the split because the new
slot does not inherit them. A prefix that does claim several
```

Author: Fixed in `c484d715`. The merge documentation now states that a tuned parent split emits a stderr note and that the new sibling does not inherit floor price, targeting, or provider settings.
